develop/tutorials/articles/mobile-apps-with-liferay-screens/04-architecture-of-liferay-screens-for-android.markdown, before:

# Architecture of Liferay Screens for Android [](id=architecture-of-liferay-screens-for-android)

Liferay Screens applies architectural ideas from
[Model View Presenter](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model-view-presenter), 
[Model View ViewModel](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model_View_ViewModel), and 
[VIPER](http://www.objc.io/issue-13/viper.html). Screens isn't considered a
canonical implementation of these architectures, because it isn't an app, but it
borrows from them to separate presentation layers from business-logic. This
tutorial explains Screen's high-level architecture, its component's low-level
architecture, and the Android screenlet lifecyle. Now, go ahead and get started
examining Screens's building blocks! 

## High-Level Architecture [](id=high-level-architecture)

Liferay Screens for Android is composed of a core, a screenlet layer, a view
layer, and interactors. Interactors, though technically part of the core, are
an important component type that facilitate communication between the screenlet
layer and the Liferay Mobile SDK. Figure 1 illustrates the high-level
architecture. 

![Figure 1: Here are the high-level components of Liferay Screens for Android. The arrows represent a "uses" relationship.](../../images/screens-android-architecture-01.png)

Each component is described below.

- *Core*: includes all the base classes for developing other Screens components.
It's a micro-framework that lets developers write their own screenlets, views,
and interactors. 

- *Screenlets*: Java View classes for inserting in any activity or fragment view
hierarchy. They render a selected layout in the runtime and in Android Studio's
visual editor, and react to UI events, sending any necessary server requests.
You can set a screentlet's properties from its layout XML file and Java code. 

- *Interactors*: implement specific user interactions or use cases. They can 
interact with local and remote data sources. Most interactors use the
[Liferay Mobile SDK](/develop/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/6-2/mobile) to exchange 
data with a Liferay instance. 

- *Views*: a set of layouts and accompanying custom view classes that present 
screenlets to the user.

Next, the core layer is described in detail. 

## Core Layer [](id=core-layer)

The core layer is the micro-framework that lets developers write screenlets in a
structured and isolated way. All screenlets share a common structure based on
the core classes, but each screenlet can have a unique purpose and communication
API. 

![Figure 2: Here's the core layer of Liferay Screens for Android.](../../images/screens-android-architecture-02.png)

Here are the core classes:

- *Interactor*: the base class for all Liferay portal interactions and use cases
that a screenlet supports. Interactors call services through the Liferay Mobile
SDK and receive responses asynchronously through the EventBus, eventually
changing a view's state. Their actions can vary in complexity, from performing
simple algorithms to requesting data asynchronously from a server or database. A
screenlet can have multiple interactors; each operation a screenlet supports
typically requires a dedicated interactor. 

- *BaseScreenlet*: the base class for all screenlet classes. It primarily 
  receives user events from a screentlet's view, instantiates and calls the 
  interactors, and then updates the view with operation results. Classes that 
  extend it can override its [template methods](http://www.oodesign.com/template-method-pattern.html):

    - *createScreenletView*: typically inflates the screenlet's view and gets 
      the attribute values from the XML definition. 
    - *createInteractor*: instantiates an interactor for the specified action. 
      If a screenlet only supports one interactor type then that type of 
      interactor is always instantiated. 
    - *onUserAction*: runs the interactor associated with the specified action.

- *ScreenletView*: implements the screenlet's UI. It's instantiated by the
  screenlet's `createScreenletView` method. It renders a specific UI using
  standard layout files and then update the UI with data changes.

- *InteractorAsyncTaskCallback*: receives asynchronous responses from the 
  Liferay Mobile SDK's `AsyncTask` class.

- *[EventBus](https://github.com/greenrobot/EventBus)*: notifies the interactor
  when asynchronous operations complete. It decouples the `AsyncTask` class
  instance from the activity lifecycle, to avoid problems typically associated
  with `AsyncTask` instances. 

- *[MobileSDK](https://www.liferay.com/community/liferay-projects/liferay-mobile-sdk/overview)*: 
  calls Liferay's remote services in a type-safe and transparent way.

- *SessionContext*: a singleton object that holds the logged in user's session.
  Apps can use an implicit login, invisible to the user, or a login that relies 
  on explicit user input to create the session. User logins can be implemented 
  with `LoginScreenlet`.

- *LiferayServerContext*: a singleton object that holds server configuration
  parameters. It's loaded from the `server_context.xml` file, or from any other
  XML file that overrides the keys defined in the `server_context.xml`. 

- *LiferayScreensContext*: a singleton object that holds a reference to the
  application context. It's used internally where necessary.

Now that you know what the core layer is comprised of, you're ready to learn the 
screenlet layer's details.

## Screenlet Layer [](id=screenlet-layer)

The screenlet layer contains the screenlets available in Liferay Screens for
Android. The following diagram uses screenlet classes prefixed with
*MyScreenlet* to show the screenlet layer's relationship with the core, view,
and interactor components.  

![Figure 3: This diagrame illustrates the Android screenlet layer's relationship to other Screens components.](../../images/screens-android-architecture-03.png)

Screenlets are comprised of several Java classes and an XML descriptor file:

- *ViewModel*: an interface that defines the attributes shown in the
  UI. It typically accounts for all the input and output values presented to the 
  user. For instance, `LoginScreenletViewModel` includes attributes like the 
  user name and password. The screenlet can read the attribute values, invoke  
  interactor operations, and change the values based on operation results. 

- *Screenlet*: a class that represents the screenlet component the developer
  interacts with. It's comprised of the following things:

    - Attribute fields for configuring the screenlet's behavior. They are read 
      in the screenlet's `createScreenletView` method and their default values 
      can optionally be set there too. 
    - A reference to the screenlet's view, specified by the `liferay:layoutId` 
      attribute's value. Note: a view must implement the screenlet's `ViewModel` 
      interface. 
    - Any number of methods for invoking interactor operations. You can 
      optionally make them public, for app developers to call. They can also 
      handle UI events received in the `View` class through a regular listener 
      (such as Android's `OnClickListener`) or events forwarded to the screenlet 
      via the `performUserAction()` method.
    - An optional (but recommended) listener object for the screenlet to call on 
      a particular event. 

- *Interactor*: implements an end-to-end use case that consumes a Liferay 
  service. It may perform several intermediate steps. For example, it may send a 
  request to a server, compute a local value based on the response, and then 
  send this value to a different server. On completing an interaction, the 
  interactor must notify its listener, which is typically its screenlet. The 
  number of interators a screenlet requires depends on the number of Liferay
  service use cases it supports. For example, the `LoginScreenlet` only supports
  one use case (log in the user), so it has only one interactor. Whereas, the
  `DDLFormScreenlet` supports several use cases (load the form, load a record,
  submit the form, etc...); so it uses a different interactor class for each use
  case. 

- *DefaultView*: a class that renders the screenlet's UI with the default 
  layout. The class in Figure 3, for example, belongs to the Default view set. 
  The view object and the layout file communicate using standard mechanisms, 
  like a `findViewById` method or a listener object. User actions are received 
  by a specified listener (for example, `OnClickListener`) and then passed to 
  the screenlet object using the `performUserAction` method.

- *Default Layout*: an XML file that specifies how to render the screenlet's 
  view. Here's a skeleton of a screenlet's layout XML file: 

        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
        <com.your.package.MyScreenletView 
            xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android">
        
            <!-- Put your regular components here: EditText, Button, etc. -->
        
        </com.your.package.MyScreenletView>

Refer to [Creating Android Screenlets](/develop/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/6-2/creating-android-screenlets)
for more screenlet details. Next, the view layer's details are described. 

## The View Layer [](id=the-view-layer)

The view layer lets developers set a screenlet's look and feel. Each screenlet's
`liferay:layoutId` attribute specifies its view. A view consists of a screenlet 
class, a view class, and a layout XML file. The UI is constructed in the layout 
XML, while the screenlet class and view class control the view's behavior. By 
inheriting one or more of these components from another view, the different view 
*types* allow varying levels of control over a screenlet's look and feel.

There are several different view types:

- *Child*: Presents the same UI components and behavior as the parent view, but 
  changes the UI components' appearance or position. Since the UI component 
  identifiers in a Child view and its parent must match, UI components cannot be 
  added or removed. The changes in a Child view are therefore only visual. Child 
  views reuse the parent's screenlet class and view class, but introduce visual 
  changes in a new layout XML file. The Child view's parent must be a Full view. 
  Creating a Child view is ideal when you only need to make visual changes to an 
  existing view. For example, you can create a Child view for Login screenlet's 
  Default view that sets new positions and sizes for the standard text boxes. 

- *Extended*: Inherits another view's UI components and behavior, letting you 
  add to or alter both. Extended views are therefore capable of augmenting a 
  Screenlet's functionality in addition to making visual changes. This is done 
  by creating a new view class that extends the parent's view class. Visual 
  changes or additions are added in a new layout XML file. However, Extended 
  views can't customize screenlet listeners or call custom interactors. This is 
  because the screenlet class is inherited from the parent view. An Extended 
  view's parent must be a Full view. Creating an Extended view is ideal when you 
  need to add, remove, or change an existing view's UI components. For example, 
  you can extend the Login screenlet's Default view to present different UI 
  components for the user name and password fields. 

- *Full*: A view with no parent. It doesn't inherit another view's UI components 
  or behavior. When creating a Full view, you must therefore create its 
  screenlet class, view class, and layout XML file. You should create a Full 
  view when you don't need to inherit another view, or when you need to alter 
  the core behavior of a screenlet by customizing its listeners or calling 
  custom interactors. For example, you could implement a Full view with a new 
  interactor for calling a different Liferay Portal instance. Default views are 
  Full views. 

Views in Liferay Screens are organized into *view sets* that contain the views 
for several screenlets. The available view sets are listed here: 

- [*Default*](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-screens/tree/1.0.0/android/library/core/src/main/java/com/liferay/mobile/screens/viewsets/defaultviews): 
  A mandatory view set supplied by Liferay. Screenlets use it if the layout ID 
  is unspecified or invalid. The Default view set uses a neutral, flat white and 
  blue design with standard UI components. In `LoginScreenlet`, for example, the 
  Default view uses standard text boxes for the user name and password, but the 
  text boxes are styled with the Default view's flat white and blue design. You 
  can customize this view set's properties, such as its colors, positions, and 
  sizes. See the Default view set's 
  [`styles.xml`](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-screens/blob/1.0.0/android/library/core/src/main/res/values/styles.xml) 
  file for specific values. Since the Default view set contains Full views, you 
  can use them to create your own custom Child and Extended views.
  
- [*Material*](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-screens/tree/1.0.0/android/viewsets/material):
  The view set containing views that conform to Android's 
  [Material design guidelines](https://developer.android.com/design/material/index.html).
  
- [*Westeros*](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-screens/tree/1.0.0/android/viewsets/westeros): 
  The view set containing views for the 
  [Bank of Westeros](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-screens/tree/1.0.0/android/samples/bankofwesteros) 
  sample app.

For information on creating views, see the tutorial 
[Creating Android Views](/develop/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/6-2/creating-android-views). 

Great! Now you know how Liferay Screens for Android is composed. However,
there's something you should know before moving on: how screenlets interact with
the Android lifecycle. 

## Screenlet Lifecycle [](id=screenlet-lifecycle)

Liferay Screens automatically saves and restores screenlets state using the
Android SDK methods `onSaveInstanceState` and `onRestoreInstanceState`. Each
screenlet uses a uniquely generated identifier (`screenletId`) assign action
results to action sources. 

The screenlets' state is restored after the `onCreate` and `onStart` methods, as
specified by the [standard Android lifecycle](http://developer.android.com/training/basics/activity-lifecycle/recreating.html).
It's best practice to execute screenlet methods inside of the activity's
`onResume` method; this helps assure that actions and tasks find their
destinations. 

Awesome! Now you know the nitty gritty architectural details of Liferay Screens
for Android. Let this tutorial be a resource for you as you work with Liferay
Screens. 

## Related Topics [](id=related-topics)

[Using Screenlets in Android Apps](/develop/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/6-2/using-screenlets-in-android-apps)

[Using Views in Android Screenlets](/develop/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/6-2/using-views-in-android-screenlets)

[Creating Android Screenlets](/develop/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/6-2/creating-android-screenlets)

[Creating Android Views](/develop/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/6-2/creating-android-views)

Commit message:

Use same text as iOS corresponding doc
The image shouldn't change here

develop/tutorials/articles/mobile-apps-with-liferay-screens/04-architecture-of-liferay-screens-for-android.markdown, after:

# Architecture of Liferay Screens for Android [](id=architecture-of-liferay-screens-for-android)

Liferay Screens applies architectural ideas from
[Model View Presenter](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model-view-presenter), 
[Model View ViewModel](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model_View_ViewModel), and 
[VIPER](http://www.objc.io/issue-13/viper.html). Screens isn't considered a
canonical implementation of these architectures, because it isn't an app, but it
borrows from them to separate presentation layers from business-logic. This
tutorial explains Screen's high-level architecture, its component's low-level
architecture, and the Android screenlet lifecyle. Now, go ahead and get started
examining Screens's building blocks! 

## High-Level Architecture [](id=high-level-architecture)

Liferay Screens for Android is composed of a core, a screenlet layer, a view
layer, and interactors. Interactors, though technically part of the core, are
an important component type that facilitate communication between the screenlet
layer and the Liferay Mobile SDK. Figure 1 illustrates the high-level
architecture. 

![Figure 1: Here are the high-level components of Liferay Screens for Android. The arrows represent a "uses" relationship.](../../images/screens-android-architecture-01.png)

Each component is described below.

- *Core*: includes all the base classes for developing other Screens components.
It's a micro-framework that lets developers write their own screenlets, views,
and interactors. 

- *Screenlets*: Java View classes for inserting in any activity or fragment view
hierarchy. They render a selected layout in the runtime and in Android Studio's
visual editor, and react to UI events, sending any necessary server requests.
You can set a screentlet's properties from its layout XML file and Java code. 

- *Interactors*: implement specific user interactions or use cases. They can interact with local and remote data sources. Most interactors use the [Liferay Mobile SDK](/develop/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/6-2/mobile) to exchange data with a Liferay instance..If one user action or use case needs to execute more than one query to remote or local store, the sequence will be done in the corresponding interactor. If one screenlet supports more than one user action or use case, one interactor will be created for each one.

- *Views*: a set of layouts and accompanying custom view classes that present 
screenlets to the user.

Next, the core layer is described in detail. 

## Core Layer [](id=core-layer)

The core layer is the micro-framework that lets developers write screenlets in a
structured and isolated way. All screenlets share a common structure based on
the core classes, but each screenlet can have a unique purpose and communication
API. 

![Figure 2: Here's the core layer of Liferay Screens for Android.](../../images/screens-android-architecture-02.png)

Here are the core classes:

- *Interactor*: the base class for all Liferay portal interactions and use cases
that a screenlet supports. Interactors call services through the Liferay Mobile
SDK and receive responses asynchronously through the EventBus, eventually
changing a view's state. Their actions can vary in complexity, from performing
simple algorithms to requesting data asynchronously from a server or database. A
screenlet can have multiple interactors; each operation a screenlet supports
typically requires a dedicated interactor. 

- *BaseScreenlet*: the base class for all screenlet classes. It primarily 
  receives user events from a screentlet's view, instantiates and calls the 
  interactors, and then updates the view with operation results. Classes that 
  extend it can override its [template methods](http://www.oodesign.com/template-method-pattern.html):

    - *createScreenletView*: typically inflates the screenlet's view and gets 
      the attribute values from the XML definition. 
    - *createInteractor*: instantiates an interactor for the specified action. 
      If a screenlet only supports one interactor type then that type of 
      interactor is always instantiated. 
    - *onUserAction*: runs the interactor associated with the specified action.

- *ScreenletView*: implements the screenlet's UI. It's instantiated by the
  screenlet's `createScreenletView` method. It renders a specific UI using
  standard layout files and then update the UI with data changes.

- *InteractorAsyncTaskCallback*: receives asynchronous responses from the 
  Liferay Mobile SDK's `AsyncTask` class.

- *[EventBus](https://github.com/greenrobot/EventBus)*: notifies the interactor
  when asynchronous operations complete. It decouples the `AsyncTask` class
  instance from the activity lifecycle, to avoid problems typically associated
  with `AsyncTask` instances. 

- *[MobileSDK](https://www.liferay.com/community/liferay-projects/liferay-mobile-sdk/overview)*: 
  calls Liferay's remote services in a type-safe and transparent way.

- *SessionContext*: a singleton object that holds the logged in user's session.
  Apps can use an implicit login, invisible to the user, or a login that relies 
  on explicit user input to create the session. User logins can be implemented 
  with `LoginScreenlet`.

- *LiferayServerContext*: a singleton object that holds server configuration
  parameters. It's loaded from the `server_context.xml` file, or from any other
  XML file that overrides the keys defined in the `server_context.xml`. 

- *LiferayScreensContext*: a singleton object that holds a reference to the
  application context. It's used internally where necessary.

Now that you know what the core layer is comprised of, you're ready to learn the 
screenlet layer's details.

## Screenlet Layer [](id=screenlet-layer)

The screenlet layer contains the screenlets available in Liferay Screens for
Android. The following diagram uses screenlet classes prefixed with
*MyScreenlet* to show the screenlet layer's relationship with the core, view,
and interactor components.  

![Figure 3: This diagrame illustrates the Android screenlet layer's relationship to other Screens components.](../../images/screens-android-architecture-03.png)

Screenlets are comprised of several Java classes and an XML descriptor file:

- *ViewModel*: an interface that defines the attributes shown in the
  UI. It typically accounts for all the input and output values presented to the 
  user. For instance, `LoginScreenletViewModel` includes attributes like the 
  user name and password. The screenlet can read the attribute values, invoke  
  interactor operations, and change the values based on operation results. 

- *Screenlet*: a class that represents the screenlet component the developer
  interacts with. It's comprised of the following things:

    - Attribute fields for configuring the screenlet's behavior. They are read 
      in the screenlet's `createScreenletView` method and their default values 
      can optionally be set there too. 
    - A reference to the screenlet's view, specified by the `liferay:layoutId` 
      attribute's value. Note: a view must implement the screenlet's `ViewModel` 
      interface. 
    - Any number of methods for invoking interactor operations. You can 
      optionally make them public, for app developers to call. They can also 
      handle UI events received in the `View` class through a regular listener 
      (such as Android's `OnClickListener`) or events forwarded to the screenlet 
      via the `performUserAction()` method.
    - An optional (but recommended) listener object for the screenlet to call on 
      a particular event. 

- *Interactor*: implements an end-to-end use case that consumes a Liferay 
  service. It may perform several intermediate steps. For example, it may send a 
  request to a server, compute a local value based on the response, and then 
  send this value to a different server. On completing an interaction, the 
  interactor must notify its listener, which is typically its screenlet. The 
  number of interators a screenlet requires depends on the number of Liferay
  service use cases it supports. For example, the `LoginScreenlet` only supports
  one use case (log in the user), so it has only one interactor. Whereas, the
  `DDLFormScreenlet` supports several use cases (load the form, load a record,
  submit the form, etc...); so it uses a different interactor class for each use
  case. 

- *DefaultView*: a class that renders the screenlet's UI with the default 
  layout. The class in Figure 3, for example, belongs to the Default view set. 
  The view object and the layout file communicate using standard mechanisms, 
  like a `findViewById` method or a listener object. User actions are received 
  by a specified listener (for example, `OnClickListener`) and then passed to 
  the screenlet object using the `performUserAction` method.

- *Default Layout*: an XML file that specifies how to render the screenlet's 
  view. Here's a skeleton of a screenlet's layout XML file: 

        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
        <com.your.package.MyScreenletView 
            xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android">
        
            <!-- Put your regular components here: EditText, Button, etc. -->
        
        </com.your.package.MyScreenletView>

Refer to [Creating Android Screenlets](/develop/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/6-2/creating-android-screenlets)
for more screenlet details. Next, the view layer's details are described. 

## The View Layer [](id=the-view-layer)

The view layer lets developers set a screenlet's look and feel. Each screenlet's
`liferay:layoutId` attribute specifies its view. A view consists of a screenlet 
class, a view class, and a layout XML file. The UI is constructed in the layout 
XML, while the screenlet class and view class control the view's behavior. By 
inheriting one or more of these components from another view, the different view 
*types* allow varying levels of control over a screenlet's look and feel.

There are several different view types:

- *Child*: Presents the same UI components and behavior as the parent view, but 
  changes the UI components' appearance or position. Since the UI component 
  identifiers in a Child view and its parent must match, UI components cannot be 
  added or removed. The changes in a Child view are therefore only visual. Child 
  views reuse the parent's screenlet class and view class, but introduce visual 
  changes in a new layout XML file. The Child view's parent must be a Full view. 
  Creating a Child view is ideal when you only need to make visual changes to an 
  existing view. For example, you can create a Child view for Login screenlet's 
  Default view that sets new positions and sizes for the standard text boxes. 

- *Extended*: Inherits another view's UI components and behavior, letting you 
  add to or alter both. Extended views are therefore capable of augmenting a 
  Screenlet's functionality in addition to making visual changes. This is done 
  by creating a new view class that extends the parent's view class. Visual 
  changes or additions are added in a new layout XML file. However, Extended 
  views can't customize screenlet listeners or call custom interactors. This is 
  because the screenlet class is inherited from the parent view. An Extended 
  view's parent must be a Full view. Creating an Extended view is ideal when you 
  need to add, remove, or change an existing view's UI components. For example, 
  you can extend the Login screenlet's Default view to present different UI 
  components for the user name and password fields. 

- *Full*: A view with no parent. It doesn't inherit another view's UI components 
  or behavior. When creating a Full view, you must therefore create its 
  screenlet class, view class, and layout XML file. You should create a Full 
  view when you don't need to inherit another view, or when you need to alter 
  the core behavior of a screenlet by customizing its listeners or calling 
  custom interactors. For example, you could implement a Full view with a new 
  interactor for calling a different Liferay Portal instance. Default views are 
  Full views. 

Views in Liferay Screens are organized into *view sets* that contain the views 
for several screenlets. The available view sets are listed here: 

- [*Default*](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-screens/tree/1.0.0/android/library/core/src/main/java/com/liferay/mobile/screens/viewsets/defaultviews): 
  A mandatory view set supplied by Liferay. Screenlets use it if the layout ID 
  is unspecified or invalid. The Default view set uses a neutral, flat white and 
  blue design with standard UI components. In `LoginScreenlet`, for example, the 
  Default view uses standard text boxes for the user name and password, but the 
  text boxes are styled with the Default view's flat white and blue design. You 
  can customize this view set's properties, such as its colors, positions, and 
  sizes. See the Default view set's 
  [`styles.xml`](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-screens/blob/1.0.0/android/library/core/src/main/res/values/styles.xml) 
  file for specific values. Since the Default view set contains Full views, you 
  can use them to create your own custom Child and Extended views.
  
- [*Material*](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-screens/tree/1.0.0/android/viewsets/material):
  The view set containing views that conform to Android's 
  [Material design guidelines](https://developer.android.com/design/material/index.html).
  
- [*Westeros*](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-screens/tree/1.0.0/android/viewsets/westeros): 
  The view set containing views for the 
  [Bank of Westeros](https://github.com/liferay/liferay-screens/tree/1.0.0/android/samples/bankofwesteros) 
  sample app.

For information on creating views, see the tutorial 
[Creating Android Views](/develop/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/6-2/creating-android-views). 

Great! Now you know how Liferay Screens for Android is composed. However,
there's something you should know before moving on: how screenlets interact with
the Android lifecycle. 

## Screenlet Lifecycle [](id=screenlet-lifecycle)

Liferay Screens automatically saves and restores screenlets state using the
Android SDK methods `onSaveInstanceState` and `onRestoreInstanceState`. Each
screenlet uses a uniquely generated identifier (`screenletId`) assign action
results to action sources. 

The screenlets' state is restored after the `onCreate` and `onStart` methods, as
specified by the [standard Android lifecycle](http://developer.android.com/training/basics/activity-lifecycle/recreating.html).
It's best practice to execute screenlet methods inside of the activity's
`onResume` method; this helps assure that actions and tasks find their
destinations. 

Awesome! Now you know the nitty gritty architectural details of Liferay Screens
for Android. Let this tutorial be a resource for you as you work with Liferay
Screens. 

## Related Topics [](id=related-topics)

[Using Screenlets in Android Apps](/develop/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/6-2/using-screenlets-in-android-apps)

[Using Views in Android Screenlets](/develop/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/6-2/using-views-in-android-screenlets)

[Creating Android Screenlets](/develop/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/6-2/creating-android-screenlets)

[Creating Android Views](/develop/tutorials/-/knowledge_base/6-2/creating-android-views)
