# Writing an Android Application with the Liferay Mobile SDK

Users often expect to access their portals from their mobile devices. As an 
intrepid developer, you naturally want to turn these expectations into reality. 
Wouldn't it be great if Liferay provided a way for your mobile apps to access 
portal content and applications? In fact, Liferay *does* provide such a way via
the Liferay Mobile SDK! With it, you can call Liferay's built-in remote services
as well as those of your custom portlets. 

If you know how to develop Android apps, but need a start-to-finish guide on how 
to integrate them with Liferay, then you're in the right place. This learning 
path walks you through the creation of an Android app that interacts with the 
Guestbook portlet developed in the [Liferay MVC learning path](/learning-paths/-/knowledge_base/6-2/beginning-liferay-development). 
When you're finished, you'll have an Android app that's able to do everything
that the Guestbook portlet is capable of. This includes adding, editing, and
deleting Guestbooks and their entries. 

You should note that while this learning path provides complete code snippets of 
the app as it's developed, not every aspect of Android development is explained 
in detail. Focus is instead placed on the code that leverages the Liferay Mobile 
SDK. Therefore, you should know *at least* the basics of Android app development 
before attempting this learning path. Without this knowledge, you're likely to
become confused. Google provides extensive documentation of the Android APIs as
well as some basic tutorials on
[developer.android.com](http://developer.android.com/index.html). 

Basic knowledge of Android development is all you need to start working on this
learning path. You needn't have completed the Liferay MVC learning path to
obtain a working Guestbook portlet. The complete Guestbook portlet's `.war`
package is provided for installation into your local Liferay instance. 

Now that you know what you'll be doing here, it's time to move on to the first
series of articles in the learning path: Beginning Android Development with the
Liferay Mobile SDK. This article shows you how to set up a local Liferay
instance and deploy the Guestbook portlet. 
